Now every time we are changing URLs,
we know it's working,
but the change happens immediately.
And maybe we can do a nice transition,
a nice animation between pages.
And initially you are thinking,
this is probably too complicated.
I know we need to get
into CSS animations or
no fade in with a set timeout and
well, actually no today,
there are a better way to do that is
known as the view transitions API.
It's actually pretty simple, at least for
the basic usage, so let's try to use it.
I will go to my router, so
I will do a change in the router, okay.
So in the router, when we are here,
defining the page element,
I'm going to do something new.
I'm talking about here, okay.
So these two lines are actually
inserting the new page, okay, in the UI.
So those two lines are doing that.
So I'm going to do this,
I'm gonna save the old page,
so the old page.
Page is query selector, Main,
first element child, Because remember,
the main has an element inside
that's the current page.
If I do have an old page, why is the
possibility of not having an outpatient?
Because when you load the page, there is
nothing in the main, okay, so it's empty.
So if I do have one,
I'm going to talk to that old page, and
I'm going to set a CSS style that
is called view transition name.
I'm going to set any name for
example, old, okay,
and for the new one, I will say style,
view transition name, new.
Then we have the old,
we have the new, okay.
So how does this work?
So to make the change, we need to make
the change in one particular function.
So we need to call one function that is,
document, start, view, transition, okay.
And then I need to pass an argument,
a function one, and
I should put this code inside.
Okay, I'm going to refactor this
a couple of times, so this goes here.
So this is what's going on,
when we call a start view transition
the browser is kind of taking a screenshot
of the current user interface.
Then you make a change and
with that change,
it's also taking a screenshot and
it's animating the transition.
Something like that,
okay, does it make sense?
I'm not done yet, but if I'm trying this,
refreshing I go to movies.
I'm not sure if you see there
is a slight difference mostly,
when you are doing this.
Can you see there is a fade now,
and it's subtle,
but you could see some small
changes in the mostly,
if it's already loaded, okay.
You can see that here
there is an animation.
And of course you can, using CSS,
you can customize that.
Even you can make things going out and
the other one going in so
you can make a slight transition and
many other things.
To finish this code,
we may have a problem,
is that build transitions might
not be available on every browser.
They are in Safari, they are in chrome,
the latest versions.
They are on the latest
of versions of Firefox.
But there still, if we go to, can I use,
There are still a couple of browsers
where, it's still not there.
So we are at 84 I mean, it's good, but
the problem is that if the browser
is not supporting build
transitions, it will never
execute these two lines.
So we should check if we have.
So if we don't have document start
view transition, so if it exists or
if it doesn't exist,
it doesn't matter, we do something and
if not, we do something else.
So in this case, we do a transition, and
in this case, we don't do a transition.
So actually what I'm going to do is
these two lines will actually go to
a local function, update page.
I'm going to call,
if there is no transition,
I will call update page immediately.
And if we do have transitions inside,
start the transition.
Okay, does it make sense?
And that's how you can quickly create
a transition between two pages.
So where does that come from?
That's looks like that's using CSS, but
it's that's, it's in the browser API.
It's a browser API that belongs,
it's a CSS spec page transition, but
it also involves a JavaScript API,
so it's both it's come from.
It's not a library, it's a browser spec,
so here, can I use?
You can go here and
you can see the spec, okay.
But have a link on the spec,
but not on this one.
And here you can see that
five four has some issues.
You need to enable the flag, but
I mean, it's still good enough
to use it if it's available and
if it's not available, there are still
a lot of users that will not execute that.
So that's why we need a fallback, okay.
And will create animated transitions
between different DOM states.
Everything you change there, and
you can make it even more complicated.
And also, we have now a cross document
view transition where you can do
a transition between two
different page loads.
So server side, render page loads, okay.
So this one is for single page
applications, and this one is for
multipage application.
And I'm assuming you can make a different
transition if you wanted to do
something unique you could do that.
Yeah, I mean, if you look for
the view transitions API,
there is a web dot dev article.
With some examples of what you can do,
things like that, that's pretty cool.
In that case,
you need to define some properties, like,
I wanna animate that particular image, and
I want that particular image to become
that other image, and
then you will make the transition for you.
So there are lots of things that you can
do, okay, here I have more examples.
And for
you don't need JavaScript for that.
You just need to find some
properties in CSS, okay, and voila.
This is for several documents,
so it's doing that animation,
even loading different
HTMLs from the server.
So it's this is bringing kind of
native app transitions for web apps.